PROJ-76 Diagram fixes (#45)
SW805F20/report: sections/sprint-1/experiment.tex

\subsection{Analyzing the data}
In \autoref{app:experiment} the data for the experiment can be seen.
For each test the average grid was calculated, and the minimum and maximum values for $x$, $y$ and $z$ were found.
The min and max values were noted, as they may be useful for future analysis.
The $z$ values were very inconsistent throughout the entire test, and due to this and the z-axis being largely irrelevant to the game, we will not focus on analyzing them.

> Because it was decided to only calculate the deviance between the actual position and the measured position in the xy-plane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because of this, it was decided to only calculate the deviance between the actual position and the measured position in the $xy$-plane.
```

\subsubsection{Precision with 1 tag} 
When testing with only one tag the average of all deviations was 15.20 cm.
\begin{figure}[H]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=1\linewidth]{1tagdiagram.PNG}
    \caption{A boxplot showing the dispersion of measured positions with 1 tag}
    \label{fig:1tagdiagram}

> \end{figure}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\end{figure}
\noindent
```

> As can be seen on figure \ref{fig:1tagdiagram} some measurements can be quite far off the actual position. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As can be seen on \autoref{fig:1tagdiagram}, some measurements can be quite far off the actual position. 
```

> On the x-axis you can see the actual position of the tag in mm compared to the playing field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the $x$-axis you can see the actual position of the tag in mm compared to the playing field.
```

> On the y-axis is the amount in mm that the measurements were off the actual position.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The $y$-axis shows the amount that the measurements were off the actual position in mm.
```

> The boxplot shows the minimum and maximum values aswell as the distribution of the measurements according to what quartile it is in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The boxplot shows the minimum and maximum values as well as the distribution of the measurements according to what quartile it is in.
```

> The box is the measurements withing first and third quartile and the whiskers that are extended out from it is the measurements on outside of the these quartiles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The box is the measurements within the first and third quartiles and the whiskers that are extended out from it is the measurements outside of the these quartiles.
```

Reviewer: ved ikke om jeg synes whiskers skal ændres. Tror det giver mere mening barre at the skrive the lines that extend

> The box is the measurements withing first and third quartile and the whiskers that are extended out from it is the measurements on outside of the these quartiles.

Reviewer 2: Jeg er ikke sikker på om jeg forstår denne sætning

> Interestingly it is the positions closest to x-axis that is the most inaccurate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Interestingly it is the positions closest to the $x$-axis that are the most inaccurate.
```

> The measurement with the highest deviance was recorded when the tag was in position \texttt{(0,3000)} were the measured position was 1.3 meters off.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The measurement with the highest deviance was recorded when the tag was in position \texttt{(0,3000)}, where the measured position was 1.3 meters off.
```

> The measurement with the highest deviance was recorded when the tag was in position \texttt{(0,3000)} were the measured position was 1.3 meters off.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The measurement with the highest deviance was recorded when the tag was in position \texttt{(0,3000)} where the measured position was 1.3 meters off.
```

> But even then the average deviance of all the measurements from that position was only 36.5 cm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The average deviance of all the measurements from that position was only 36.5 cm, however.
```

> The highest average deviance of all the positions was 39.5 cm in position \texttt{(0,6000)}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The highest average deviance of all the positions was 39.5 cm in position \texttt{(0,6000)}.
```

When running with one tag the average amount of measurements were 12.368 per second.
 

\subsubsection{Precision with 3 tag}
For this part of the experiment, the accuracy was tested with three tags. 
The tags were positioned at three different x-coordinates. 
1400, 1800 and 2200 were chosen as the $x$ coordinates and the $y$ coordinate was moved up by 300 mm each time starting from 0 and going up to 1200.
The average amount of updates from all the tags per second were 1.83, less than 10 percent of the amount of updates when only one tag was used.

> The amount of updates were very different between the different tags as the one with the highest update rate had an average of 3.4 per second and the lowest only 0.92.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The amount of updates were very different between the different tags, as the one with the highest update rate had an average of 3.4 per second and the lowest only 0.92.
```

\begin{figure}[H]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=1\linewidth]{3tagdiagram.PNG}
    \caption{A boxplot showing the dispersion of measured positions with 3 tags}
    \label{fig:3tagdiagram}

> \end{figure}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\end{figure}
\noindent
```

> On figure \ref{fig:3tagdiagram} all the measurements from the 3 tag experiment can be seen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On \autoref{fig:3tagdiagram} all the measurements from the 3 tag experiment can be seen.
```

The 3 last sets of measurements are from when all the tags were placed close to each other at the same point.
This was done to see if they would affect the precision of each other.
Based on the data it seems they might have a small effect on each other but not enough for it to be a problem.

> The biggest deviance in the test was only 46 cm off compared to 1.3 meters in the 1 tag test which seemed interesting, but could be because the measurements in the 3 tag experiment was made in the middle of the playing field compared to at the edge in the 1 tag experiment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The biggest deviance in the test was only 46 cm off compared to 1.3 meters in the 1 tag test which seemed interesting, but could be because the measurements in the 3 tag experiment were made in the middle of the playing field compared to at the edge in the 1 tag experiment.
```

Reviewer: måske lige nævne hurtgit hvad problemet var når de var ved edgen. Var det pga metal der fuckede med det eller var det bare fordi det var svært at håndtere derude?

\paragraph{Tag 26467}

> This tag was positioned 1400 mm along the x-axis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tag was positioned 1400 mm along the $x$-axis.
```

The overall average deviation for this tag was 11.9 cm and it made 1.16 measurements per second.

> No measurements were further away than 26.3 cm from the actual position and the biggest average deviance for a set of measurements were only 22.26 cm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No measurements were further away than 26.3 cm from the actual position and the biggest average deviance for a set of measurements was only 22.26 cm.
```

\paragraph{Tag 26895}

> This tag was positioned 1800 mm along the x-axis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tag was positioned 1800 mm along the $x$-axis.
```

This tag was only 9.2 cm off on average and had by far the highest average update rate at 3.4 Hz.
Like the previous tag it also did not have any measurements with large deviances.
The furthest measurement was 22.1 cm off and the worst average deviance for a set was 15.09 cm.
This was by far the best performing tag in this experiment regarding both precision and update rate.

\paragraph{Tag 24622}

> This tag was positioned 2200 mm along the x-axis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tag was positioned 2200 mm along the $x$-axis.
```

The overall average deviation for this tag was 14.48 cm and an update rate at 0.92 hz.

> The first three points the results seemed fairly accurate, however, the grid \texttt{(2200, 900)} had a large deviation of 22.43 cm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the first three points the results seemed fairly accurate, however, the grid \texttt{(2200, 900)} had a large deviation of 22.43 cm.
```

That set also had the measurement with highest deviance with 46.0 cm.

\subsubsection{Precision with 5 tag}
The tags were positioned at five different x-coordinates. 

> 1400, 1600, 1800, 2000 and 2200 were chosen as the $x$ coordinates and the $y$ coordinate was moved up by 200 mm each time starting from 0 to 120.

Reviewer: Tror 0 to 120 skal ændres her, det er vel i cm? det skal nok lige skrives explicit eller ændres til mm

> 1400, 1600, 1800, 2000 and 2200 were chosen as the $x$ coordinates and the $y$ coordinate was moved up by 200 mm each time starting from 0 to 120.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1400, 1600, 1800, 2000 and 2200 were chosen as the $x$ coordinates and the $y$ coordinate was moved up by 200 mm each time starting from 0 to 120 cm.
```

\begin{figure}[H]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=1\linewidth]{5tagdiagram.PNG}

>     \caption{A boxplot showing the dispersion of measured positions with 3 tags}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \caption{A boxplot showing the dispersion of measured positions with 5 tags}
```

    \label{fig:5tagdiagram}

> \end{figure}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\end{figure}
\noindent
```

> Like the experiment with 3 tags there was no huge outliers like in the first experiment.

Reviewer: måske til en ref til figuren og lige skriv et eller andet til den

> Like the experiment with 3 tags there was no huge outliers like in the first experiment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like the experiment with 3 tags there were no huge outliers like in the first experiment.
```

> But we do still se two instances were the measurements are futhere off than normal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But we do still se two instances were the measurements are further off than normal.
```

\paragraph{Tag 24622}

> This tag was positioned 1800 mm along the x-axis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tag was positioned 1800 mm along the $x$-axis.
```

The average deviation for this tag was 12.99 cm and the average update rate was 0.83 Hz.
This was the tag that had the worst measurement on coordinates \texttt{(1800, 0)} which was off by 65.1 cm and the worst average deviance of a measurement set with 31.7 cm.
Besides that the other sets were among the most accurate.

\paragraph{Tag 26467}

> This tag was positioned 1400 mm along the x-axis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tag was positioned 1400 mm along the $x$-axis.
```

For this tag, the average deviation was 12.75 cm and the average amount of data points per second was 0.6.

> At \texttt{1400, 200} the tag only returned one measurement and at \texttt{(1400, 600)} there were only two measurements doing the 5 second period the tag was laid there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At \texttt{1400, 200} the tag only returned one measurement and at \texttt{(1400, 600)} there were only two measurements completed during the 5 second period the tag was in that position.
```

The tag was overall very precise with all measurements within 23.6 cm of the actual position.

\paragraph{Tag 26895}

> This tag was positioned 1600 mm along the x-axis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tag was positioned 1600 mm along the $x$-axis.
```

Tag 26895 had an average deviation of 12.39 cm and an update rate at 2.11 Hz. 
This update rate was much higher than tag 24622, 26467 and 27001, and equal to 26901 even though they all had the same settings.

\paragraph{Tag 26901}

> This tag was positioned 2200 mm along the x-axis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tag was positioned 2200 mm along the $x$-axis.
```

The average deviation of tag 26901 was 14.74 cm, and it had an update rate of 2.11 Hz aswell.

> This tag had a few spikes when measureing on coordinate \texttt{(2200, 200)} where the average deviance was 20.99 and the worst measurement was 54.6 cm off.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tag had a few spikes when measuring on coordinate \texttt{(2200, 200)}, where the average deviance was 20.99 cm and the worst measurement was 54.6 cm off.
```

\paragraph{Tag 27001}

> This tag was positioned 2000 mm along the x-axis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tag was positioned 2000 mm along the $x$-axis.
```

The measurement with the highest deviance was recorded when the tag was in position \texttt{(0,3000)} where the measured position was 1.3 meters off.
The average deviance of all the measurements from that position was only 36.5 cm, however.
The highest average deviance of all the positions was 39.5 cm in position \texttt{(0,6000)}.
When running with one tag the average amount of measurements were 12.368 per second.
 

\subsubsection{Precision with 3 tag}
For this part of the experiment, the accuracy was tested with three tags. 
The tags were positioned at three different x-coordinates. 
1400, 1800 and 2200 were chosen as the $x$ coordinates and the $y$ coordinate was moved up by 300 mm each time starting from 0 and going up to 1200.
The average amount of updates from all the tags per second were 1.83, less than 10 percent of the amount of updates when only one tag was used.
The amount of updates were very different between the different tags, as the one with the highest update rate had an average of 3.4 per second and the lowest only 0.92.
\begin{figure}[H]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=1\linewidth]{3tagdiagram.PNG}

>     \caption{A boxplot showing the dispersion of measured positions with 3 tags}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    \caption{A box plot showing the dispersion of measured positions with 3 tags}
```

\paragraph{Tag 26895}
This tag was positioned 1800 mm along the $x$-axis.
This tag was only 9.2 cm off on average and had by far the highest average update rate at 3.4 Hz.
Like the previous tag it also did not have any measurements with large deviances.
The furthest measurement was 22.1 cm off and the worst average deviance for a set was 15.09 cm.
This was by far the best performing tag in this experiment regarding both precision and update rate.

\paragraph{Tag 24622}
This tag was positioned 2200 mm along the $x$-axis.
The overall average deviation for this tag was 14.48 cm and an update rate at 0.92 hz.
For the first three points the results seemed fairly accurate, however, the grid \texttt{(2200, 900)} had a large deviation of 22.43 cm.
That set also had the measurement with highest deviance with 46.0 cm.

\subsubsection{Precision with 5 tag}
The tags were positioned at five different x-coordinates. 
1400, 1600, 1800, 2000 and 2200 were chosen as the $x$ coordinates and the $y$ coordinate was moved up by 200 mm each time starting from 0 to 1200 mm.
\begin{figure}[H]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=1\linewidth]{5tagdiagram.PNG}

>     \caption{A boxplot showing the dispersion of measured positions with 5 tags}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    \caption{A box plot showing the dispersion of measured positions with 5 tags}
```

    \label{fig:5tagdiagram}
\end{figure}
\noindent
Like the experiment with 3 tags, seen on \autoref{fig:3tagdiagram}, there were no huge outliers like in the first experiment where some measurements were off by more than a meter.

> But we do still se two instances were the measurements are further off than normal.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
But two instances were still seen as further off than the average.
```

While the experiment was running the tags could throw errors instead of giving a position if something went wrong.
Mainly during the multi-tag tests, some tags would report back with errors such as unable to get firmware version, flash memory corrupted or an error message saying there was no error.
At that point in the experiment, it was not clear whether it was a hardware error with some of the tags or if it was code related.
The tags would throw these errors randomly and then measure their position normally at the next update.
This resulted in some of the tags having periods of update rates of less than 0.2 Hz.
It was decided that further investigation into this issue should be conducted at a later point.

\subsection{Conclusion on the experiment}
Our conclusion of this experiment is that the precision is satisfactory, but the update rate is not optimal as that does not meet the standards of the refresh rate needed with the current settings.
\\\\
We also need to consider the spikes in the coordinates, such that the user does not jump around on the screen, even though the user might not be moving.

> A good solution would be to use a algorithm to correct the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A good solution would be to use an algorithm to correct the data.
```

\\\\
The results of this experiment shows that a three dimensional game is not viable with the errors that we had on the $z$ coordinate. 
This is most likely due to the height difference between the anchors only being 20 cm.
If we, later on, choose to make use of the $z$ coordinate, then it is necessary to conduct another experiment with the Pozyx with different, larger height differences, but as it currently is only a two-dimensional game it is not necessary.
\\\\
It also seemed like some tags were not able to send as many measurements as others.

> Consistently through the experiments tag 26895 was the best tag regarding update rate sometimes having a update rate almost 3 times faster than the other tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consistently throughout the experiments tag 26895 was the best tag regarding update rate, sometimes having an update rate almost 3 times faster than the other tags.
```

> In part do to some tags seemingly having a slower update rate but also because some of them would report errors instead of measurements randomly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This was caused in part due to some tags seemingly having a slower update rate, but also because some of them would report errors instead of measurements randomly.
```
